The dance is said to have been transmitted by the doctor Tachibana Tachibana, who had been operating as an ophthalmologist in Oita Shiominami district of Hyuga City from the end of Edo period to the early period of Meiji, but Tachibana doctor has been transmitted for hundreds of years There are also theories that they have been inspired by the villages of Kagura and that they have made the present dance, and that Tachibana Doctor has told Kaguraku of the old city while attending school, so it is clear that it was clear when they were dancing not. It used to be danced on the day of the first noon, but now it is danced as a dance to celebrate the children's prayers and good harvests, and as a dance of business prosperity.
A long time ago, there was a beautiful girl that young people in the village named Okame would admire
It was the leopard leash that became the coffin.
However, they were not blessed with their children's treasures, and every morning they prayed to the village Inari.
One morning, in red rice served by two people
The hungry God-master released his hand,
Inari, who saw this, got angry and appeared.
I am fascinated by a beautiful sea turtle.
The leopard skates and young people who got into a stop
It is said that the state of the fuss with the dance was danced.